---
title: "Heavybagging for Dummies"
date: 2024-01-16
---

Phase 1: Punch
----------------

By far the biggest improvement here is to rotate your hips into the punch. I've found power when initiating a punch from the feet up. In a cross, it is necessary to rotate your hips and shoulder into the punch. For speed jabs, you can use them to try to create space.
Next, through in some hooks to the body and head. Use the momentum from retracting the left to carry you into the right punch.
Focus on making the punches straight and aligned with your arm bones.
You should also practice bouncing on the balls of your feet.
Don't foreshadow your punches or wind them up. Concentrate on speed of retraction while guarding your face at all times.
Sharp exhale with every punch, or you'll exhaust yourself

Phase 2: Kicks
--------------

Again, your hips are pivotal here. You should use your legs as whips.
When chambering the kick, leaning back will give you more height.
Your arms should swing in the opposite direction of your leg to act as a counterbalance. Your foot on the ground should pivot in place during the release.
Impact with your shin, not your foot.
For practice, try landing 20 low kicks on each leg.

Phase 3: Elbows
---------------

For Muay Thai, you can get fancy and flip a missed punch into a spinning elbow. Step forward when you punch and slam your opposite elbow into the bag.
Elbows are good for close contact. Land with the tip to enact more damage.

Phase 4: Slips and feints
-------------------------

Even though the heavybag won't punch back, it's good to incorporate some amount of movement into your session.
Adding slips and moving your head will make it harder for your opponent to target you.
Feints are also wonderful. I like to practice varying the heights of my feints.
